# Analysis of Citi Bike Data 2017-2020

## Notes
* All CSV files were prepared using pandas in Jupyter Notebook.  This resulted in the four data files: citibike_2017.csv, citibike_2018.csv, citibike_2019.csv, citibike_2020.csv.  The file "Citi_Bike_Data_Prep.ipynb" shows the work flow to clean and prepare the data, although the process as depicted there was not strictly linear (e.g. had to return to earlier steps to modify commands or correct errors.)

* The Tableau workbooks displays correctly using Tableau public in both creation and presentation modes.  It does seem to have some odd issues on Tableau Public online.  I thought it best to rely on the desktop app, as web applications are not always reliable counterparts to their desktop versions.
## Phenomenon 1 -- Gender Distribution of Trips
The gender breakdown of users of CitiBike reflects a large dominance by male users, although there was an overall decline in their proportion, especially in 2020.  It is noticeable that the percentage of females using Citi Bike remains fairly static over the four years. This would suggest that marketing efforts to increase the percentage of female riders have not had a great impact so far.  The other notable observation from the gender data is the increasing representation of those with gender listed as "Unknown".  As users supply their own gender, this would possibly indicate more users becoming comfortable with not assigning themselves a binary gender, reflecting the greater acceptance of this designation in wider society.  It could be that expanding the list of genders would make potential LGBTQ+ users feel more positive towards Citi Bike and increase their use of the service.  This could also be tied into marketing events, such as temporary rainbow decals on bikes during PRIDE month and so on.  In an increasingly changing world, it is important that companies such as Citi Bike reflect the diverse populations that they operate in.

## Phenomenon 2 -- Peak Hours in Summer and Winter
The peak hours in the winter months are consistently between 0700-0900 and 1700-1900, except for 2020, likely due to the effect of COVID-19 and its associated lockdowns, working from home and so on.  The peaks in the summer months are similar, although usage is much higher, and the hours extend to 1600 and 2000.  This is likely due to the warmer weather and longer daylight hours of summer giving more time in which it is feasible to use Citi Bike.  The two peak periods during the day in both summer and winter also reflect hours in which users are evidently commuting to and from their workplaces.  More efforts to market the ease of using Citi Bike for travelling to and from work environments could prove to increase usage, visibility and profitability for the company.